[error tracking] Add ticketing systems integration doc (#33803)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/error_tracking/ticketing_systems/jira.md

---
title: Jira Integration
is_beta: false
private: false
further_reading:
  - link: '/error_tracking/explorer/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Error Tracking Explorer'
  - link: '/error_tracking/issue_states/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Issue States in Error Tracking'
  - link: '/integrations/jira/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Jira Integration'
---

## Overview

> The Jira integration for Error Tracking allows you to create and link Jira tickets to Error Tracking issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrate Jira with Error Tracking to create and link Jira tickets to Error Tracking issues. With Jira for Error tracking, you can: 
```

- Create Jira tickets directly from the Error Tracking issue panel
- Group multiple Error Tracking issues into a single ticket
- Automatically route issues to specific Jira boards using automation rules
- Automatically create Jira tickets for Error Tracking issues matching specific criteria.

## Setup

You need the following [permissions][1] to use the Jira integration for Error Tracking:

- Error Tracking Read
- Error Tracking Issue Write
- Cases Read
- Cases Write

## Create a ticket from an issue

You can create a Jira ticket directly from the Issue Panel to group investigation efforts on that issue:

1. Navigate to the [Error Tracking Explorer][2].
2. Click on an issue to open the Issue Panel.
3. In the Issue Panel, in the **Actions** dropdown, click **Add Jira ticket**.

> 4. Choose the Jira account and project in which the ticket should be created. Choose the ticket type you want to create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Choose the Jira account and project in which the ticket should be created. Then, choose the ticket type you want to create.
```

You can attach multiple Error Tracking issues to a single Jira ticket to group correlated issues into a single unit of work:

1. Navigate to the [Error Tracking Explorer][2].
2. Click on an issue to open the Issue Panel.
3. In the Issue Panel, in the **Actions** dropdown, click **Add Jira ticket**.
4. In the **Add to Existing** tab, paste the URL of the ticket in which you want to group your issues.
5. Optionally, access Data Sync settings to configure how data should be synced between Datadog and Jira.
6. Click **Link to Issue** to attach the issue to the ticket.
7. Repeat these actions on all the issues you want to add to this group.

{{< img src="error_tracking/add-to-existing-ticket.png" alt="Add an Error Tracking issue to an existing Jira ticket" style="height:300px;" >}}

When several issues are linked to a single ticket, their state, assignee and comments are two-way synced.
See [State dual-way sync between issues and tickets](#state-dual-way-sync-between-issues-and-tickets) for more information
on how the issues states and ticket status are synced.

The relationship between tickets and issues is a 1:N relationship. A single ticket can be linked to multiple issues, but

> an issue can only be linked to one single Jira ticket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relationship between tickets and issues is a 1:N relationship. A single ticket can be linked to multiple issues, but an issue can only be linked to one single Jira ticket.
```

## State dual-way sync between issues and tickets

If two-way sync is enabled and configured between your Datadog and Jira projects, the states of your Error Tracking issues
and Jira tickets are mirrored. If you encounter any unexpected behavior on this states sync, see our [Troubleshooting][5]
page to fix your configuration.

When a single Error Tracking issue is linked to a Jira ticket, their states are two-way synced. The mapping between these
states can be configured in the Data Sync settings of the ticket creation or automation rule forms:

{{< img src="error_tracking/jira-status-mapping.png" alt="Map Error Tracking issue states to Jira ticket statuses" style="width:100%;" >}}

When multiple Error Tracking issues are linked to the same Jira ticket, there is also a sync between their states,
depending on the situation. If you update the status of the ticket, all linked issues are updated to mirror this state

> according to your mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple Error Tracking issues are linked to the same Jira ticket, there is also a sync between their states, depending on the situation. If you update the status of the ticket, all linked issues are updated to mirror this state according to your mapping.
```

| The ticket is `Done` and all issues are `Resolved`.                | You update one issue to `For Review`.                  | The ticket is `To Do` but all other issues remain `Resolved`.                                      |
| The ticket is `To Do` and all issues are `For Review`.             | You update one issue to `Resolved`.                    | The ticket is `To Do`, one issue is `Resolved`, all other issues remain `For Review`.              |
| The ticket is `Done` and you have one unlinked issue `For Review`. | You link the `For Review` issue to your `Done` ticket. | The ticket is `Done` and all issues are `Resolved` (including the newly linked issue).             |
| The ticket is `To Do` and you have one unlinked `Resolved` issue.  | You link the `Resolved` issue to your `To Do` ticket.  | The ticket is `To Do` and all issues are `For Review` except the new one which remains `Resolved`. |

## Automation rules

Configure rules to match specific issues to Jira boards. When an issue matches a rule, any ticket created for
that issue will be defaulted into the board specified by your rule - whether it’s a ticket that you manually create, or

> a ticket that we create automatically for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure rules to match specific issues to Jira boards. When an issue matches a rule, any ticket created manually or automatically for that issue will be defaulted into the board specified by your rule.
```

### Setup

You need either Error Tracking Write or Error Tracking Settings Write [permission][1] to create automation rules for your

> Error Tracking issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create automation rules for your Error Tracking issues, you need one (1) of the following [permissions][6] :
	- Error Tracking Write
	- Error Tracking Settings Write 
```
